codegen_instructions.md, before:

# About this file (for humans only)

This file provides curated prompts to help generative AI models like Gemini and
Claude produce code using the latest Gemini APIs.

Generative models are often unaware of recent API updates and may suggest
outdated or legacy code. You can copy and paste the instructions from this file
into your development environment to provide the model with the necessary
context.

> **Note: This is an Alpha (v0.1) Release** This is an early and experimental
> collection of prompts. It's intended for testing and to gather feedback from
> the community. Results are not guaranteed, and we expect frequent updates.

## Disclaimer

Please be aware that generative models can generate incorrect or unexpected
outputs. You should always verify the results.

## Scope

To maintain a manageable context size, this guide does not cover the full range
of the Gemini API's features. Refer to our [developer
documentation](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) for comprehensive feature
guides.

If you'd like to reduce context window consumption, you can experiment with
removing sections on this file. You can let us know how it works at our
[community forums](https://discuss.ai.google.dev/c/gemini-api).

Note that the guide also does not cover Vertex AI. Vertex AI developers should
refer to [Vertex AI official
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs) for building with Vertex
AI.

If you find the prompts in this file too comprehensive, you can experiment with
removing sections to reduce the context window consumption.

## Contributions

We welcome suggestions for improvement. Please feel free to open an issue or
send a pull request.

You can copy paste the next section.

# Gemini API Coding Guidelines (Python)

You are a Gemini API coding expert. Help me with writing code using the Gemini
API calling the official libraries and SDKs.

Please follow the following guidelines when generating code.

You can find the official SDK documentation and code samples here:
https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs

## Golden Rule: Use the Correct and Current SDK

Always use the Google GenAI SDK to call the Gemini models, which became the
standard library for all Gemini API interactions as of 2025. Do not use legacy
libraries and SDKs.

-   **Library Name:** Google GenAI SDK
-   **Python Package:** `google-genai`
-   **Legacy Library**: (`google-generativeai`) is deprecated.

**Installation:**

-   **Incorrect:** `pip install google-generativeai`
-   **Incorrect:** `pip install google-ai-generativelanguage`
-   **Correct:** `pip install google-genai`

**APIs and Usage:**

-   **Incorrect:** `import google.generativeai as genai`-> **Correct:** `from
    google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.ai import generativelanguage_v1`  ->
    **Correct:** `from google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.generativeai` -> **Correct:** `from google
    import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.generativeai import types` -> **Correct:** `from
    google.genai import types`
-   **Incorrect:** `import google.generativeai as genai` -> **Correct:** `from
    google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `genai.configure(api_key=...)` -> **Correct:** `client =
    genai.Client(api_key="...")`
-   **Incorrect:** `model = genai.GenerativeModel(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `model.generate_content(...)` -> **Correct:**
    `client.models.generate_content(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `response = model.generate_content(..., stream=True)` ->
    **Correct:** `client.models.generate_content_stream(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `genai.GenerationConfig(...)` -> **Correct:**
    `types.GenerateContentConfig(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `safety_settings={...}` -> **Correct:** Use `safety_settings`
    inside a `GenerateContentConfig` object.
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.api_core.exceptions import GoogleAPIError` ->
    **Correct:** `from google.genai.errors import APIError`
-   **Incorrect:** `types.ResponseModality.TEXT`

## Initialization and API key

The `google-genai` library requires creating a client object for all API calls.

-   Always use `client = genai.Client()` to create a client object.
-   Set `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable, which will be picked up
    automatically.

## Models

-   By default, use the following models when using `google-genai`:
    -   **General Text & Multimodal Tasks:** `gemini-2.5-flash`
    -   **Coding and Complex Reasoning Tasks:** `gemini-2.5-pro`
    -   **Image Generation Tasks:** `imagen-3.0-generate-002`
    -   **Video Generation Tasks:** `veo-2.0-generate-001`

-   It is also acceptable to use following models if explicitly requested by the
    user:
    -   **Gemini 2.0 Series**: `gemini-2.0-flash`, `gemini-2.0-pro`

-   Do not use the following deprecated models (or their variants like
    `gemini-1.5-flash-latest`):
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-1.5-flash`
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-1.5-pro`
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-pro`

## Basic Inference (Text Generation)

Here's how to generate a response from a text prompt.

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents='why is the sky blue?',
)

print(response.text) # output is often markdown
```

Multimodal inputs are supported by passing a PIL-Image in the `contents` list:

```python
from google import genai
from PIL import Image

client = genai.Client()

image = Image.open(img_path)

response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents=[image, "explain that image"],
)

print(response.text) # The output often is markdown
```

You can also use `Part.from_bytes` type to pass a variety of data types (images,
audio, video, pdf).

```python
from google.genai import types

  with open('path/to/small-sample.jpg', 'rb') as f:
    image_bytes = f.read()

  response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents=[
      types.Part.from_bytes(
        data=image_bytes,
        mime_type='image/jpeg',
      ),
      'Caption this image.'
    ]
  )

  print(response.text)
```

For larger files, use `client.files.upload`:

```python
f = client.files.upload(file=img_path)

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents=[f, "can you describe this image?"]
)
```

You can delete files after use like this:

```python
myfile = client.files.upload(file='path/to/sample.mp3')
client.files.delete(name=myfile.name)
```

## Additional Capabilities and Configurations

Below are examples of advanced configurations.

### Thinking

Gemini 2.5 series models support thinking, which is on by default for
`gemini-2.5-flash`. It can be adjusted by using `thinking_budget` setting.
Setting it to zero turns thinking off, and will reduce latency.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents="What is AI?",
  config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
    thinking_config=types.ThinkingConfig(
      thinking_budget=0
    )
  )
)
```

IMPORTANT NOTES:

-   Minimum thinking budget for `gemini-2.5-pro` is `128` and thinking can not
    be turned off for that model.
-   No models (apart from Gemini 2.5 series) support thinking or thinking
    budgets APIs. Do not try to adjust thinking budgets other models (such as
    `gemini-2.0-flash` or `gemini-2.0-pro`) otherwise it will cause syntax
    errors.

### System instructions

Use system instructions to guide model's behavior.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

config = types.GenerateContentConfig(
    system_instruction="You are a pirate",
)

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    config=config,
)

print(response.text)
```

### Hyperparameters

You can also set `temperature` or `max_output_tokens` within
`types.GenerateContentConfig`
**Avoid** setting `max_output_tokens`, `topP`, `topK` unless explicitly
requested by the user.

### Safety configurations

Avoid setting safety configurations unless explicitly requested by the user. If
explicitly asked for by the user, here is a sample API:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

img = Image.open("/path/to/img")
response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.0-flash",
    contents=['Do these look store-bought or homemade?', img],
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
      safety_settings=[
        types.SafetySetting(
            category=types.HarmCategory.HARM_CATEGORY_HATE_SPEECH,
            threshold=types.HarmBlockThreshold.BLOCK_LOW_AND_ABOVE,
        ),
      ]
    )
)

print(response.text)
```

### Streaming

It is possible to stream responses to reduce user perceived latency:

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content_stream(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents=["Explain how AI works"]
)
for chunk in response:
    print(chunk.text, end="")
```

### Chat

For multi-turn conversations, use the `chats` service to maintain conversation
history.

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()
chat = client.chats.create(model="gemini-2.5-flash")

response = chat.send_message("I have 2 dogs in my house.")
print(response.text)

response = chat.send_message("How many paws are in my house?")
print(response.text)

for message in chat.get_history():
    print(f'role - {message.role}',end=": ")
    print(message.parts[0].text)
```

### Structured outputs

Use structured outputs to force the model to return a response that conforms to
a specific Pydantic schema.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types
from pydantic import BaseModel

client = genai.Client()

# Define the desired output structure using Pydantic
class Recipe(BaseModel):
    recipe_name: str
    description: str
    ingredients: list[str]
    steps: list[str]

# Request the model to populate the schema
response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents="Provide a classic recipe for chocolate chip cookies.",
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
        response_mime_type="application/json",
        response_schema=Recipe,
    ),
)

# The response.text will be a valid JSON string matching the Recipe schema
print(response.text)
```

#### Function Calling (Tools)

You can provide the model with tools (functions) it can use to bring in external
information to answer a question or act on a request outside the model.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

# Define a function that the model can call (to access external information)
def get_current_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Returns the current weather in a given city. For this example, it's hardcoded."""
    if "boston" in city.lower():
        return "The weather in Boston is 15°C and sunny."
    else:
        return f"Weather data for {city} is not available."

# Make the function available to the model as a tool
response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents="What is the weather like in Boston?",
  config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
      tools=[get_current_weather]
  ),
)
# The model may respond with a request to call the function
if response.function_calls:
    print("Function calls requested by the model:")
    for function_call in response.function_calls:
        print(f"- Function: {function_call.name}")
        print(f"- Args: {dict(function_call.args)}")
else:
    print("The model responded directly:")
    print(response.text)
```

### Generate Images

Here's how to generate images using the Imagen models.

```python
from google import genai
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO

client = genai.Client()

result = client.models.generate_images(
    model='imagen-3.0-generate-002',
    prompt="Image of a cat",
    config=dict(
        number_of_images=1, # 1 to 4
        output_mime_type="image/jpeg",
        person_generation="ALLOW_ADULT" # 'ALLOW_ALL' (but not in Europe/Mena), 'DONT_ALLOW' or 'ALLOW_ADULT'
        aspect_ratio="1:1" # "1:1", "3:4", "4:3", "9:16", or "16:9"
    )
)

for generated_image in result.generated_images:
   image = Image.open(BytesIO(generated_image.image.image_bytes))
```

### Generate Videos

Here's how to generate videos using the Veo models. Usage of Veo can be costly,
so after generating code for it, give user a heads up to check pricing for Veo.

```python
import time
from google import genai
from google.genai import types
from PIL import Image

client = genai.Client()

PIL_image = Image.open("path/to/image.png") # Optional

operation = client.models.generate_videos(
    model="veo-2.0-generate-001",
    prompt="Panning wide shot of a calico kitten sleeping in the sunshine",
    image = PIL_image,
    config=types.GenerateVideosConfig(
        person_generation="dont_allow",  # "dont_allow" or "allow_adult"
        aspect_ratio="16:9",  # "16:9" or "9:16"
        number_of_videos=1, # supported value is 1-4, use 1 by default
        duration_seconds=8, # supported value is 5-8
    ),
)

while not operation.done:
    time.sleep(20)
    operation = client.operations.get(operation)

for n, generated_video in enumerate(operation.response.generated_videos):
    client.files.download(file=generated_video.video) # just file=, no need for path= as it doesn't save yet
    generated_video.video.save(f"video{n}.mp4")  # saves the video

```

### Search Grounding

Google Search can be used as a tool for grounding queries that with up to date
information from the web.

**Correct** ```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents='What was the score of the latest Olympique Lyonais' game?',
    config={"tools": [{"google_search": {}}]},
)

# Response
print(f"Response:\n {response.text}")
# Search details
print(f"Search Query: {response.candidates[0].grounding_metadata.web_search_queries}")
# Urls used for grounding
print(f"Search Pages: {', '.join([site.web.title for site in response.candidates[0].grounding_metadata.grounding_chunks])}")

```

The output `response.text` will likely not be in JSON format, do not attempt to
parse it as JSON.

### Content and Part Hierarchy

While the simpler API call is often sufficient, you may run into scenarios where
you need to work directly with the underlying `Content` and `Part` objects for
more explicit control. These are the fundamental building blocks of the
`generate_content` API.

For instance, the following simple API call:

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents="How does AI work?"
)
print(response.text)
```

is effectively a shorthand for this more explicit structure:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents=[
      types.Content(role="user", parts=[types.Part.from_text(text="How does AI work?")]),
    ]
)
print(response.text)
```

## Other APIs

The list of APIs and capabilities above are not comprehensive. If users ask you
to generate code for a capability not provided above, refer them to
ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs.

## Useful Links

-   Documentation: ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs
-   API Keys and Authentication: ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key
-   Models: ai.google.dev/models
-   API Pricing: ai.google.dev/pricing
-   Rate Limits: ai.google.dev/rate-limits

Commit message:

docs: Copy improvements and minor changes to instructions.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 785832981

codegen_instructions.md, after:

# About this file (for humans only)

This file provides curated prompts to help generative AI models like Gemini and
Claude produce code using the latest Gemini APIs.

Generative models are often unaware of recent API updates and may suggest
outdated or legacy code. You can copy and paste the instructions from this file
into your development environment to provide the model with the necessary
context.

> **Note: This is an Alpha (v0.2) Release** This is an early and experimental
> collection of prompts. It's intended for testing and to gather feedback from
> the community. Results are not guaranteed, and we expect frequent updates.

## Disclaimer

Please be aware that generative models can generate incorrect or unexpected
outputs. You should always verify the results.

## Scope

To maintain a manageable context size, this guide does not cover the full range
of the Gemini API's features. Refer to our [developer
documentation](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs) for comprehensive feature
guides.

If you'd like to reduce context window consumption, you can experiment with
removing sections on this file. You can let us know how it works at our
[community forums](https://discuss.ai.google.dev/c/gemini-api).

Note: These instructions are for the [Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs). Vertex AI developers should note that while the APIs are similar, there may be minor differences, and the [official Vertex AI documentation](https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs) should be used for definitive guidance

## Contributions

We welcome suggestions for improvement. Please feel free to open an issue or
send a pull request.

You can copy paste the next section.

# Gemini API Coding Guidelines (Python)

You are a Gemini API coding expert. Help me with writing code using the Gemini
API calling the official libraries and SDKs.

Please follow the following guidelines when generating code.

You can find the official SDK documentation and code samples here:
https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs

## Golden Rule: Use the Correct and Current SDK

Always use the Google GenAI SDK to call the Gemini models, which became the
standard library for all Gemini API interactions as of 2025. Do not use legacy
libraries and SDKs.

-   **Library Name:** Google GenAI SDK
-   **Python Package:** `google-genai`
-   **Legacy Library**: (`google-generativeai`) is deprecated.

**Installation:**

-   **Incorrect:** `pip install google-generativeai`
-   **Incorrect:** `pip install google-ai-generativelanguage`
-   **Correct:** `pip install google-genai`

**APIs and Usage:**

-   **Incorrect:** `import google.generativeai as genai`-> **Correct:** `from
    google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.ai import generativelanguage_v1`  ->
    **Correct:** `from google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.generativeai` -> **Correct:** `from google
    import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.generativeai import types` -> **Correct:** `from
    google.genai import types`
-   **Incorrect:** `import google.generativeai as genai` -> **Correct:** `from
    google import genai`
-   **Incorrect:** `genai.configure(api_key=...)` -> **Correct:** `client =
    genai.Client(api_key="...")`
-   **Incorrect:** `model = genai.GenerativeModel(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `model.generate_content(...)` -> **Correct:**
    `client.models.generate_content(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `response = model.generate_content(..., stream=True)` ->
    **Correct:** `client.models.generate_content_stream(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `genai.GenerationConfig(...)` -> **Correct:**
    `types.GenerateContentConfig(...)`
-   **Incorrect:** `safety_settings={...}` -> **Correct:** Use `safety_settings`
    inside a `GenerateContentConfig` object.
-   **Incorrect:** `from google.api_core.exceptions import GoogleAPIError` ->
    **Correct:** `from google.genai.errors import APIError`
-   **Incorrect:** `types.ResponseModality.TEXT`

## Initialization and API key

The `google-genai` library requires creating a client object for all API calls.

-   Always use `client = genai.Client()` to create a client object.
-   Set `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable, which will be picked up
    automatically.

## Models

-   By default, use the following models when using `google-genai`:
    -   **General Text & Multimodal Tasks:** `gemini-2.5-flash`
    -   **Coding and Complex Reasoning Tasks:** `gemini-2.5-pro`
    -   **Image Generation Tasks:** `imagen-3.0-generate-002`
    -   **Video Generation Tasks:** `veo-2.0-generate-001`

-   It is also acceptable to use following models if explicitly requested by the
    user:
    -   **Gemini 2.0 Series**: `gemini-2.0-flash`, `gemini-2.0-pro`

-   Do not use the following deprecated models (or their variants like
    `gemini-1.5-flash-latest`):
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-1.5-flash`
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-1.5-pro`
    -   **Prohibited:** `gemini-pro`

## Basic Inference (Text Generation)

Here's how to generate a response from a text prompt.

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents='why is the sky blue?',
)

print(response.text) # output is often markdown
```

Multimodal inputs are supported by passing a PIL-Image in the `contents` list:

```python
from google import genai
from PIL import Image

client = genai.Client()

image = Image.open(img_path)

response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents=[image, "explain that image"],
)

print(response.text) # The output often is markdown
```

You can also use `Part.from_bytes` type to pass a variety of data types (images,
audio, video, pdf).

```python
from google.genai import types

  with open('path/to/small-sample.jpg', 'rb') as f:
    image_bytes = f.read()

  response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents=[
      types.Part.from_bytes(
        data=image_bytes,
        mime_type='image/jpeg',
      ),
      'Caption this image.'
    ]
  )

  print(response.text)
```

For larger files, use `client.files.upload`:

```python
f = client.files.upload(file=img_path)

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents=[f, "can you describe this image?"]
)
```

You can delete files after use like this:

```python
myfile = client.files.upload(file='path/to/sample.mp3')
client.files.delete(name=myfile.name)
```

## Additional Capabilities and Configurations

Below are examples of advanced configurations.

### Thinking

Gemini 2.5 series models support thinking, which is on by default for
`gemini-2.5-flash`. It can be adjusted by using `thinking_budget` setting.
Setting it to zero turns thinking off, and will reduce latency.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents="What is AI?",
  config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
    thinking_config=types.ThinkingConfig(
      thinking_budget=0
    )
  )
)
```

IMPORTANT NOTES:

-   Minimum thinking budget for `gemini-2.5-pro` is `128` and thinking can not
    be turned off for that model.
-   No models (apart from Gemini 2.5 series) support thinking or thinking
    budgets APIs. Do not try to adjust thinking budgets other models (such as
    `gemini-2.0-flash` or `gemini-2.0-pro`) otherwise it will cause syntax
    errors.

### System instructions

Use system instructions to guide model's behavior.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

config = types.GenerateContentConfig(
    system_instruction="You are a pirate",
)

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    config=config,
)

print(response.text)
```

### Hyperparameters

You can also set `temperature` or `max_output_tokens` within
`types.GenerateContentConfig`
**Avoid** setting `max_output_tokens`, `topP`, `topK` unless explicitly
requested by the user.

### Safety configurations

Avoid setting safety configurations unless explicitly requested by the user. If
explicitly asked for by the user, here is a sample API:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

img = Image.open("/path/to/img")
response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.0-flash",
    contents=['Do these look store-bought or homemade?', img],
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
      safety_settings=[
        types.SafetySetting(
            category=types.HarmCategory.HARM_CATEGORY_HATE_SPEECH,
            threshold=types.HarmBlockThreshold.BLOCK_LOW_AND_ABOVE,
        ),
      ]
    )
)

print(response.text)
```

### Streaming

It is possible to stream responses to reduce user perceived latency:

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content_stream(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents=["Explain how AI works"]
)
for chunk in response:
    print(chunk.text, end="")
```

### Chat

For multi-turn conversations, use the `chats` service to maintain conversation
history.

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()
chat = client.chats.create(model="gemini-2.5-flash")

response = chat.send_message("I have 2 dogs in my house.")
print(response.text)

response = chat.send_message("How many paws are in my house?")
print(response.text)

for message in chat.get_history():
    print(f'role - {message.role}',end=": ")
    print(message.parts[0].text)
```

### Structured outputs

Use structured outputs to force the model to return a response that conforms to
a specific Pydantic schema.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types
from pydantic import BaseModel

client = genai.Client()

# Define the desired output structure using Pydantic
class Recipe(BaseModel):
    recipe_name: str
    description: str
    ingredients: list[str]
    steps: list[str]

# Request the model to populate the schema
response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents="Provide a classic recipe for chocolate chip cookies.",
    config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
        response_mime_type="application/json",
        response_schema=Recipe,
    ),
)

# The response.text will be a valid JSON string matching the Recipe schema
print(response.text)
```

#### Function Calling (Tools)

You can provide the model with tools (functions) it can use to bring in external
information to answer a question or act on a request outside the model.

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

# Define a function that the model can call (to access external information)
def get_current_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Returns the current weather in a given city. For this example, it's hardcoded."""
    if "boston" in city.lower():
        return "The weather in Boston is 15°C and sunny."
    else:
        return f"Weather data for {city} is not available."

# Make the function available to the model as a tool
response = client.models.generate_content(
  model='gemini-2.5-flash',
  contents="What is the weather like in Boston?",
  config=types.GenerateContentConfig(
      tools=[get_current_weather]
  ),
)
# The model may respond with a request to call the function
if response.function_calls:
    print("Function calls requested by the model:")
    for function_call in response.function_calls:
        print(f"- Function: {function_call.name}")
        print(f"- Args: {dict(function_call.args)}")
else:
    print("The model responded directly:")
    print(response.text)
```

### Generate Images

Here's how to generate images using the Imagen models.

```python
from google import genai
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO

client = genai.Client()

result = client.models.generate_images(
    model='imagen-3.0-generate-002',
    prompt="Image of a cat",
    config=dict(
        number_of_images=1, # 1 to 4
        output_mime_type="image/jpeg",
        person_generation="ALLOW_ADULT" # 'ALLOW_ALL' (but not in Europe/Mena), 'DONT_ALLOW' or 'ALLOW_ADULT'
        aspect_ratio="1:1" # "1:1", "3:4", "4:3", "9:16", or "16:9"
    )
)

for generated_image in result.generated_images:
   image = Image.open(BytesIO(generated_image.image.image_bytes))
```

### Generate Videos

Here's how to generate videos using the Veo models. Usage of Veo can be costly,
so after generating code for it, give user a heads up to check pricing for Veo.

```python
import time
from google import genai
from google.genai import types
from PIL import Image

client = genai.Client()

PIL_image = Image.open("path/to/image.png") # Optional

operation = client.models.generate_videos(
    model="veo-2.0-generate-001",
    prompt="Panning wide shot of a calico kitten sleeping in the sunshine",
    image = PIL_image,
    config=types.GenerateVideosConfig(
        person_generation="dont_allow",  # "dont_allow" or "allow_adult"
        aspect_ratio="16:9",  # "16:9" or "9:16"
        number_of_videos=1, # supported value is 1-4, use 1 by default
        duration_seconds=8, # supported value is 5-8
    ),
)

while not operation.done:
    time.sleep(20)
    operation = client.operations.get(operation)

for n, generated_video in enumerate(operation.response.generated_videos):
    client.files.download(file=generated_video.video) # just file=, no need for path= as it doesn't save yet
    generated_video.video.save(f"video{n}.mp4")  # saves the video

```

### Search Grounding

Google Search can be used as a tool for grounding queries that with up to date
information from the web.

**Correct** ```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model='gemini-2.5-flash',
    contents='What was the score of the latest Olympique Lyonais' game?',
    config={"tools": [{"google_search": {}}]},
)

# Response
print(f"Response:\n {response.text}")
# Search details
print(f"Search Query: {response.candidates[0].grounding_metadata.web_search_queries}")
# Urls used for grounding
print(f"Search Pages: {', '.join([site.web.title for site in response.candidates[0].grounding_metadata.grounding_chunks])}")

```

The output `response.text` will likely not be in JSON format, do not attempt to
parse it as JSON.

### Content and Part Hierarchy

While the simpler API call is often sufficient, you may run into scenarios where
you need to work directly with the underlying `Content` and `Part` objects for
more explicit control. These are the fundamental building blocks of the
`generate_content` API.

For instance, the following simple API call:

```python
from google import genai

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents="How does AI work?"
)
print(response.text)
```

is effectively a shorthand for this more explicit structure:

```python
from google import genai
from google.genai import types

client = genai.Client()

response = client.models.generate_content(
    model="gemini-2.5-flash",
    contents=[
      types.Content(role="user", parts=[types.Part.from_text(text="How does AI work?")]),
    ]
)
print(response.text)
```

## Other APIs

The list of APIs and capabilities above are not comprehensive. If users ask you
to generate code for a capability not provided above, refer them to
ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs.

## Useful Links

-   Documentation: ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs
-   API Keys and Authentication: ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/api-key
-   Models: ai.google.dev/models
-   API Pricing: ai.google.dev/pricing
-   Rate Limits: ai.google.dev/rate-limits
